Steve, good morning.
I want to make sure I understand
how this thing works.
This is me, Steve Zelers,
and I'm an engineer working on web
services frameworks for Mac OS X.
So, before we begin,
let's talk about what a web service is,
what it means to us and to developers.
A web service is basically an endpoint,
or a method, that you can access over the
internet using standard protocols,
including XML and HTTP,
to either get a result or
perform some action on,
well, we call it an endpoint.
This is usually an HTTP server.
It's heterogeneous.
That means that the clients
and the servers can be running
on different architectures,
and they're all just going to
speak a lingua franca called XML.
There are commercial web services,
which are things that you might pay for.
If you had a business that
needed some piece of information,
someone else could put up a web
service that provided that information,
and you would access it.
You would access it through
a web services toolkit,
and you would be billed for it.
And then there are private or
not commercial web services
that you could also access.
So,
some examples that you'll see on the net.
Barnes & Noble has a web service
that you give it an ISBN number,
it gives you the price of the book.
There's also a web service that tells you
the current temperature in a zip code.
So, Cupertino is 95014.
You would send it 95014.
It would tell you that it's a balmy 68.
degrees or some such.
The standards in web services
are all built on acronyms.
There are dozens and dozens of acronyms,
and I'm only going to talk about a
few of these during this presentation.
XMLRPC and SOAP are both formats
of web service invocations.
That is, these are mutually exclusive,
different ways of packaging up the data
that you're sending to the web service.
These are both built on top of XML,
which is a standard for presenting
information in a way that is reliable.
The other side is guaranteed to
either understand the message or not.
It's also very easy for humans to read,
so that we get an understanding of
what the data is that's being sent.
These are both, in our case,
sent on top of HTTP,
which we all know is used
to access web pages on the
Internet and also to do HTTP posts,
which web services typically
are done via HTTP post.
There's another acronym called WSDL,
W-S-D-L, which stands for
Web Service Description Language.
This is an XML document that
describes what services are
available at an endpoint.
I'll talk about that a little more later.
Here's an architectural diagram
of what XMLRPC and SOAP look
like sitting on top of XML.
In addition,
SOAP sits on top of XML schemas,
which give you a very rich type system.
This is a very interesting example
of what XMLRPC and SOAP look
like sitting on top of XML.
There are actually two ways
of encoding SOAP documents.
The phrase you're going to hear a little
later is called Section 5 encoding.
In this,
the XML that you're sending is typed.
It's strongly typed with a
tag on the XML that says,
"This element is an integer," or "This
element is a string." XML schemas
let you build up complex types.
Again,
I'll talk about those a little later on.
As you can see,
XML writing on top of HTTP is typically
what we think of as a web service.
So, here's the state of
XML web services today.
XMLRPC is a spec that was developed
by a company called Userland
with some independent developers,
with help from Microsoft and
some other folks.
And basically,
it was published by this company and
is used by them and by other vendors
to implement a simple RPC mechanism
on top of XML and on top of HTTP post.
It is done.
The guy who owns the
spec isn't moving on it.
And that means you can
implement the spec today,
and it's pretty much
guaranteed to work tomorrow.
It's not a moving target.
SOAP is an evolving standard, however.
SOAP 1.0 was developed by Userland
and Microsoft and some other folks.
And it's a little different from XMLRPC.
The syntax is a little different,
but fundamentally,
it's trying to do the same thing.
And as SOAP evolves,
more and more extensions
have been added onto it.
So, as of today, SOAP 1.1 is... SOAP 1.2
is a W3C recommendation,
the World Wide Web Consortium
recommendation,
which means it's basically done.
It's no longer a moving target.
SOAP 1.2 is a W3C note,
which means it's still a moving target.
It's still being debated.
The extensions to the
specification aren't final yet.
In addition,
SOAP includes something called a header,
which can contain additional
information for SOAP extensions.
And SOAP extensions can be anything that
a platform vendor might want to add.
So... SOAP is more of a moving target,
but it's still being pushed
very heavily by Microsoft.
So the difference between
these two specifications.
XMLRPC is very simple.
I'm going to show you an
example of what the message
actually looks like in a minute.
SOAP 1.1 could be as simple as SOAP,
but it could also be written
in a more complex way.
It's kind of like Perl.
You can write your Perl
code any way you want,
and it may look like line
noise or it may look like Java,
and it's up to you to
make that distinction.
Both of them have basic
type support for scalars,
integer, string, double, and date,
and binary data passed as base64.
And it has support for custom types,
arrays, and records.
Soap enhances this by adding
multi-ref support so you could have
a single element in an XML document
that is referenced multiple times,
and it also has user types
in the form of XML schemas.
In XMLRPC, there is a major flaw,
or what most of us think of as a flaw,
in that the string parameters
must be passed as US ASCII text.
If you have international
text that you want to pass,
you have to encode it as base64 binary.
This has been a bone of
contention for a lot of people,
and it's just something you
have to deal with in the API.
XMLRPC passes parameters by position.
If you have, say,
a routine that adds two numbers, A and B,
or, say, divides two numbers where
the position is important,
the XMLRPC routine has to take
those parameters in order A,
B.
The SOAP method takes
them as named parameters.
You can say element A or
parameter A has a value 4,
parameter B has a value 2.
XMLRPC can only be transported
[Transcript missing]
So how do you access web services?
Well, there are dozens and dozens of
toolkits for both XMLRPC and SOAP.
And the thing to remember about these
toolkits is that they bind a framework
to the runtime model of your application.
So if you have an
application written in Java,
it's probably a good bet to go
with one of the established Java,
SOAP, or XMLRPC implementations because
they will match your object model.
But it's an investment to bring one of
these toolkits into your application.
If you go out on the
net and grab a toolkit,
then start shipping it
with your application,
you're going to be forced to maintain
that toolkit and your customers
are going to have to hear about it.
Or you'll hear about it when
your customers are dissatisfied
with some bug or something else.
So you want to choose the toolkit that
best matches your runtime environment
and your application frameworks.
So what did we do in Mac OS 10.1?
Well, last year at the conference,
we were really pushing Mac OS X and
what was available then.
And coming out a few months
later was Mac OS 10.1,
and we couldn't tell you about one of
the exciting features in Mac OS 10.1,
which is XMLRPC and SOAP 1.1 support
baked into the Apple Event Manager.
Because it was baked into
the Apple Event Manager,
AppleScript got support
for this for free.
In a few minutes,
we'll have a demo of that.
This proved to be a very popular
way for people on our platform
to access these web services.
They didn't have to go out on the
net and download a toolkit and
make sure their customers had it.
They just had to make sure
their customers had 10.1,
which most everybody did,
and they were able to write
applications that took advantage of
the support built into the system.
It works by hijacking an
addressing mode for an Apple event.
An Apple event, for those of you who
are new to our platform,
is an interprocess
communication mechanism.
And in 10.1,
we reintroduced remote Apple events,
the ability to send a binary message to
another application on another computer,
another Mac OS X computer.
And for addressing modes that were HTTP,
we treated them as a web service.
We were able to do this without any
API changes to the Apple Event Manager,
and just by enabling some additional
data types that hinted to the
Apple Event Manager that the method that
needed to be called was to be called
using the XMLRPC or SOAP framework.
So I'm going to give the
canonical XML RPC example,
which is to call the method
examples.getStateName on the server
http://betty.userland.com/port80/rpc2.
When I go to send this message,
I'm going to open up an
HTTP connection and do an HTTP post
to that site with an XML document.
And the XML document takes a
single integer as a parameter
and returns a string.
This is what that message
is going to look like.
It's XML.
It has a structure to it that includes
the method name and a parameter list.
In this case, there's a single parameter.
You can see the parameter is number 41
encased in an element tag that says i4.
That's XML RPC's indicator that the
element is typed as a long integer.
And in response,
the server comes back by saying, "Okay,
the return value from that method
is the string South Dakota." Now,
the server is returning, I think,
basically it's got an array of 50 states,
and it returns element 41 in the
array in no particular order.
So it's not a very interesting example,
but it shows the message
in response pretty well.
[Transcript missing]
So the next thing we do is create
the event that we're going to send.
And just like in the
normal Apple Event Manager,
you create the target address.
In our case, it's an application URL.
Type char should be on that slide.
And then you give it the location that
you're going to post the event to.
Then you create the event with
the special event class and ID of
KAERPC class and the event ID of KAERPC.
So this is what we've created.
We've created an Apple event on
the left-hand side of the screen,
and the callouts show you
basically what the contents
of the Apple event look like.
You've got the class, the scheme,
the target address,
and the direct object is broken
out into a record with two fields.
The examples that get state
name is the method name.
The parameters is actually a
list containing the number 41.
Okay, so then you send the event
and you deal with the reply.
Apple events can be sent
synchronously or asynchronously,
which means that if it's
an asynchronous call,
you're going to receive the
reply as an Apple event,
as a class AEVT, ANSR.
But in this case,
we're just going to say, send the event,
wait for the reply.
This opens up the connection to the
remote site and sends the event,
gets the reply, turns it back into an
Apple event descriptor,
and then you can pull out,
out of the reply, the direct object,
which in our case is a string,
and then you can call printf
because your Unix programmer is now,
and you can call printf with impunity.
You can have more complex
types in an Apple event.
You can have an AE list gets
turned into an array in the XML,
and an AE record gets
turned into a structure,
which is a key-value pair.
The problem with Apple event records,
though,
is that they have a limitation that the
key for a record is a 4-byte string,
or an OS type, actually.
It's a 32-bit integer.
We borrow something
innovated by AppleScript,
which is to say you can have a
list of items in a record under
the key KeyASUserRecordFields,
and this will be the string,
and then a descriptor, and then a string,
and then a descriptor.
This is how you would build up a
complex record in AppleScript or
in the Apple Event Manager.
When the Apple Event Manager sees
one of these special keys,
it knows that it wants
to build a structure.
It knows that it wants to build
a structure with a complex name,
a long string name, and then some value.
The value is going to be either
a scalar type or a compound type.
This is how you would do that.
You create the list that this...
The application is a simple document.
You can write a code to it.
There's an alternative,
which is that AppleScript basically got
support for all of this for free by the
addition of a simple dictionary that adds
the call soap and call XML RPC methods.
This is a great way to prototype
and debug web services,
because the Apple Event Manager sits
below AppleScript,
and AppleScript just builds complex
Apple events like a duck in water.
It's really easy to use AppleScript to
both prototype and to embed web
services inside your application.
There's a tech note that I'll mention
at the end that can show you how to add
AppleScript to your application as well.
At this time,
I'm going to ask Tim Bumgarner to
come up and demo AppleScript Studio,
which uses Apple Events to
access web services.
Sound?
There we go.
Okay, great.
Okay.
First thing we need to do in our
demo is actually discover what
type of service we want to use.
And I've got an application here
called X Methods Service Finder.
And this employs the services from
the X Methods website to actually
display all the different publishers,
the service names,
and a short description of all
the services that are available.
And I've got a nice little
search area up here.
I can actually find maybe all the
publishers that begins with X Methods.
I'll type this and it quickly just
lists the ones that are from X Methods.
Let's do something a
little more interesting.
Let's see if we can find anything
that has to do with stock.
So if I, maybe I wanted a web
service that would be,
pull out the current value of a stock,
I could use that.
For our demo actually,
let's see if we can find
anything about Dilbert.
And actually there is one, Daily Dilbert.
And it looks like it says it returns a
binary stream of today's Dilbert comics.
And actually what it returns
is a URL to an image.
So let's go ahead and build a web
service built on this particular service.
So I'm going to go into Project Builder.
And we're going to start
right at the beginning.
We're going to do this
right from scratch.
So I'm going to choose New Project.
And in this case, I'm going to choose the
AppleScript application template.
And we're going to go ahead
and call this Daily Dilbert.
All right, click Finish.
Now I've got my project open here.
And it's already given me basically a
blank script to start with and pretty
much just a start on our resources.
If it will open-- there we go.
Double-click that.
We're going to go into Interface Builder.
First thing we're going to do is go
ahead and put together our interface.
And in this case,
it's going to be a fairly
trivial application.
We'll just make this a little smaller.
I'm going to bring up the attributes.
First thing I want to do is
go ahead and change the title
to Daily Dilbert of my window.
Since what we're going to be doing
is getting an image and putting
it and loading it in this view,
we'll need an image view.
There's one right here.
Drag it over.
And we'll change some of
the attributes of that.
We'll make it so there's no border.
I can use the Aqua guidelines
to make sure I get it
snapped right up to the edge.
A couple other things is that we're
going to automatically resize the image,
this window, based on what the image that
we get from the service.
And so I want to just make sure
that this particular view stretches.
So for the most part, the UI is done.
It's very simple.
Now I actually want to add
some AppleScript functionality.
And one of the things we have to
do is to name our objects so that
we can refer to them by name in
our scripts instead of by index.
So I'm going to go to
my AppleScript panel.
Anytime I want to do anything with
AppleScript in Interface Builder,
I go to this panel.
And I'm going to name my window.
Go ahead and we'll call it Dilbert.
And then I also want
to name my image view.
And I know that I've got the image
view because when I click on it,
there's an NSImageView title here.
And I'm going to also
call this one Dilbert.
Now what I want to do is I want to
actually execute some AppleScript.
So when this window gets loaded,
or in particular this view
gets loaded from the nib,
I want to trigger an AppleScript.
And so there is a nib class here.
And for those of you that
are Cocoa programmers,
this will look very familiar,
awake from nib.
So you can attach to any object
and find out when it's been loaded.
And we're going to assign it to this.
One other thing is that I don't want
the window to be initially visible.
So let's turn off its visibility.
And then the other thing we need
to do is we want to know when the
app is finished launching so that
we can then present the window.
So again, I go back to my AppleScript.
And in this case, there is a launched.
Event.
And let's go ahead and then
click on the edit script.
Now what this does is it goes
back into Project Builder,
loads my script,
and it determines that there weren't
any handlers with those names.
And so it automatically goes
and adds those handlers for me.
So let's go ahead,
and I've got a little bit
of a demo assistant here.
If it's working correctly,
it's going to enter the
script so you don't have to
watch me painfully type this.
Basically, what we do is the parameter
to this web service is a date.
And it has to be in the format month.
So it's going to use as digits/day/year.
And ironically enough,
I found it was actually easier to
use the shell to call date to get
it in that particular format because
AppleScript doesn't make it easy
to get it in this specific format.
You can get it -- the month comes back as
the actual string of January or February.
In this case, that wouldn't work.
So I just found that we actually
have this functionality built into
AppleScript called do shell script.
And I just jump out and call the shell
command date passing it the parameter,
and voila, it works.
So let's go ahead and continue on.
Then the next thing I do is
I want to get the image as this
image view is being loaded.
And so there's a handler here,
get Dilbert image for date.
And we're going to add
that in just a bit.
Now continue on.
And then what I do is once
I've loaded the image,
I go ahead and set the
image of that image view.
And the thing that's being awoken
in essence is the image view.
The object will contain that image view.
All right, so let's go down and add the
rest of our handlers here.
Oh, we've got one more thing here.
Next thing I also want to
do is once I load the image,
I want to adjust the size of the window
based on the size of the image itself.
So I simply call size of the window.
I set its size.
This is actually doing
another interesting thing.
It happens that at this
point in version Studio 1.1,
the size of an image can't be
determined directly from AppleScript.
This will be fixed.
But I can actually call Objective-C.
And this is another Studio enhancement
such that call method is
calling the Objective-C method
called size on the object,
the image.
Without any code, I can just jump off and
call into Objective-C.
So if Studio hasn't provided
some functionality for you,
we've sort of put a backdoor
in with the call method.
So let's go on down here and we'll
see if we can put in the rest of it.
Nope, and I forgot to show it.
And then at the very end,
we want to show that window.
And then I'm going to go through this,
the getDilbertImage.
So it's setting it to some
known value to begin with.
And then we're going to call another
handler called loadImageAtUrl.
And this is going to call yet another
handler calling the actual web service
getDailyDilbert for image at the path.
And we'll finish this.
And then here's the loadImage.
And I'll walk through
this one here in a second.
Basically, it does another call method.
I cheated here again.
Given the URL, there's actually a Cocoa--
I'm a Cocoa engineer.
There is a-- and a string class,
and there actually has one--
A category point on it,
so I can actually get the last path
component of that URL very simply.
So I jump out, and with call method,
I pass this particular
method name on the URL,
and it gives me the last part of it,
because that's what I'm going
to use as the part of the name.
And basically,
we're going to stick this image
that we load in slash temp,
so the next time we reboot,
we don't have to worry
about getting rid of it.
And then again,
we're going to employ do shell script,
because we can use the curl
tool to pass it that URL,
and it's going to return it to
and save it for me on my disk.
And then when I'm done,
I will use the load image command
that's in studio to load that
image and set it into that,
or to pass it back in our array.
All right.
Then the next thing we need to read
is the most interesting one as far
as the web services is concerned.
And this is called
Daily Dilbert Image Path.
And what it does is it simply uses
that URL that Steve talked about.
This is the endpoint.
And just like we talked
to a local application,
by tell application finder,
we can simply talk to the web services
tell application this particular URL.
And then we give it the method name.
And it needs also a
SOAP action in this case,
and the namespace for that.
And the parameters we're actually passing
in right here in the end parameters,
and they get sort of put together.
And then we ultimately call SOAP.
And this is going to do
what Steve talked about.
It's going to take all
this data that we pass,
which is really just
an AppleScript record.
You'll see this is an AppleScript record.
Takes that, pulls it into,
or takes it and converts it into XML,
sends it over the wire,
waits for the response.
It comes back as an XML data,
and then he parses it and
then gives it back to us in
AppleScript so that we can use it.
And that will be our image.
And let's see, I think we've got
everything that we need.
and let's go ahead and save and run this.
See how it works.
builds, compiles.
There you go.
So it's went off, loaded that data,
loaded our image,
and it looks like that's
our today's daily image.
And Steve, pick it back up.
Oh, by the way, I forgot to tell you.
It just happens to be that
this application itself
is a studio application.
The app that I use to find the
services is a studio application.
And here's the code for it,
if I can open it up.
It's actually going to talk to mail.
And close all the windows.
And here is the service detail.
So here, I put this together last night.
And here's the script for that.
So just a little bit of script here.
That whole application was written in a
couple hours to actually do the services.
Again, employing web services to get
all the data that we needed.
All right, thanks, Steve.
Thank you, Tim.
So I guess the point to get out of that
is that AppleScript and Apple Events,
empowered with web services,
really give you a way of getting
to web services very quickly,
and at least, if nothing else,
playing with them.
Okay,
so what do we have for you in Jaguar?
We've decided to ship something
called Web Services Core.
Now, what was wrong with the
Apple Event Manager way of doing things?
Nothing.
The Apple Event Manager way
of doing things is fine,
but it's at a little too high
a level in the protocol stack,
in the library chain of our system.
So in this slide,
we see that App Services has
the Apple Event Manager sitting
as a little bubble in it.
And then what we've done is implemented
WS Core inside of Core Services.
Now, this is a lower-level framework.
It sits alongside of CF Network,
Core Foundation, and Carbon Core.
And it gives you access to the...
basic runtime model for our system.
It's available to all applications,
plugins, daemons, tools.
It doesn't have any dependency on
the Windows Server or login window.
You don't have to be a logged-in user.
You could use it from a CGI application.
It's integrated with the system.
It sits inside of core services and it
leverages CFXML parser and CF network.
It's thread safe, run loop safe,
and friendly.
It encourages you to asynchronously
issue invocation requests on the run loop
and receive a reply on your run loop.
It's CF type based,
so you have to create CF type objects for
your strings and integers and records,
dictionaries, and CFArrays.
But if you're an Objective-C programmer,
you get toll-free bridging
with the Objective-C types.
It's also a simple procedural API,
so there's no need to have a lot
of objects involved for this API.
There's actually probably six calls in
the API and a single object or type ref.
[Transcript missing]
So, like I said,
you create one of these things using
the method WS_MethodInvocationCreate.
It's a CFURL or an NSURL.
A method name is a CFString,
and the protocol is one of
these CFString constants
that are in the header.
The header, by the way,
on the Jaguar CD is
WS_MethodInvocation.h.
[Transcript missing]
So this is how you would build the
dictionary and parameter order array.
You call CFDictionary add value on a
mutable dictionary that you've created.
You've got two parameters.
Param one is Steve, param two is John.
You add the parameter names
to the parameter name array,
and then you just set the
parameters onto the ref.
So, then you invoke it.
And you do that with a single call,
WS_MethodInvocationInvoke.
The result of this
call is a CFDictionary.
Now, that's not the actual method result.
That's a dictionary containing
the actual method result,
as well as optional
debugging information,
including the outgoing XML and
the returned XML and the
HTTP headers or HTTP errors,
and fault information so that if there
was a networking transport error,
that information is going to
be in there and available as
keys in that dictionary as well.
So, basically,
you make this invocation call,
and then if you can call this
method WS_MethodResultIsFault,
passing up that result dictionary,
then you can pull out the fault string
out of the dictionary and display it
to the user or do some other work,
whatever you want to do.
Otherwise, if it's not a fault,
you look up the
KWS_MethodInvocationResult.
The result of this is a CF type ref,
and depending on the
service you're calling,
it's going to be some sort of value
that's expressed in CF type lingo.
So,
in the example we saw earlier of XMLRPC,
the result of this would be a CFString.
A more complex type like the
XMethods inspector that Tim showed,
the result is a dictionary
containing arrays of dictionaries
containing arrays of dictionaries.
And so you have to know
upfront what the type is.
Of course,
you can't do a full transaction
to decide what the type ID is
and do something based on that.
You can also execute
these asynchronously.
You set on the invocation
a client context.
This is similar to how CF Stream works.
In the old world, we used to set refcons.
Nowadays, we set client context.
This includes the info pointer that
you want to pass to your callback,
as well as some callbacks
for the info pointer to allow
it to be reference counted.
If you're familiar with the CF API,
you can see how this works.
Once you set the callback,
you can schedule this invocation
on one or more run loops,
and as those run loops execute,
the invocation will pass
through its state machine,
ultimately resulting in getting
the data or getting a fault.
Then it will call your callback
during that run loop invocation,
and you can process the result.
We're going to do a demo now.
If I could go to demo four.
We're on demo four.
All right.
Here we go.
Google API in shiny metal.
I did the demo last night,
so I had the opportunity to check that
checkbox and make this thing demo,
make it metal.
So,
I'm gonna show you first what it does.
If you haven't heard, Google released an
API for their web service,
for their search engine.
And this is relevant because
if they don't change the API,
which they shouldn't because
APIs are supposed to be immutable,
20 years from now,
I won't have to try and figure
out how to scrape their web page
to get their search results.
I can just call this API and
get the same information back.
So we search for Google API, hit return,
and it goes out, contacts Google through
WS Core and fetches the results.
Anyway,
so the result from the Google API is
that the search engine is now working.
So, I'm gonna show you what it does.
So, I'm gonna show you
First thing we do is we
create an invocation.
Well, actually the first thing I guess
we did was we created a URL that
specified the endpoint that we
wanted to send our request to,
in this case,
http://google.com/search/beta2.
When you go to Google and
you look at their API,
they give you a developer kit,
and it's got all the information
about what the methods are
available and what the APIs are,
what the endpoints are,
and sort of all the meta information
you need in order to send the request.
So we create the URL,
we create the invocation with the URL,
the name of the method, and the protocol.
We're specifying as SOAP 1999.
It's probably not the best name,
but that specifies SOAP 1.1.
Then we're going to set the parameters.
The Google search takes 10 parameters.
They're all required in their API or
in their implementation of the API,
but that is something that,
it's really up to them to own that.
Probably the least relevant
thing that's required is the key.
When you sign up for
their developer program,
they give you a key.
The key is like a 40-digit long number,
alphanumeric string.
I keep it in a dot file in
my home directory so that
all my tools can use it.
We're going to do two things.
We're going to build up an array
of strings and an array of values.
There's a one-to-one correspondence
between the key in the string table
and the value in the value table.
In this case, we've got the keys,
get my secret key,
and the key key from my dot file.
Q is the query, the F query string.
This was set when you
hit the search button.
Magic Cocoa things happened.
I have to create an NSNumber instead of
just passing the number 0 or 10 in here.
There's no automatic Cocoa or
Objective-C coercion from
a scalar to an NSNumber.
I create the number with
the integers 0 and 10.
There are additional parameters,
which are booleans and strings
that tell us what the number is.
I'm going to use the integer 0 and 10.
I'm going to use the tell Google what
kind of search I want to do,
or whether to restrict the
Google search to a particular language.
I create an array,
which is the parameter order from
the array that I tonsed up up front,
and then a parameter values.
And I have a parameter, which is a
[Transcript missing]
with, again,
the string that was given to us
by the Google API documentation.
And then you invoke it.
So the result of the invocation
is a result dictionary.
So we block at this point,
send the message, get the result,
and then we process it in here.
If the reply is a fault,
then we're just going to go
ahead and say an error occurred.
Otherwise, we delve into the dictionary.
and we look up the magic key
KWS method invocation result.
This contains the actual
result of the SOAP invocation,
not the meta information.
Google, of course, well, not of course,
but Google decided to add an extra
level of an indirection to that.
So we then, we know the result of that
invocation was a dictionary,
and then we have to
look up the key return,
which gives us another dictionary,
and then the key result elements.
which is an array that lives
inside that dictionary.
From there,
we just go off into the rest of our
Cocoa class and process the results.
Now, one interesting thing is
So when we ran this API, AppleScript,
When we ran this demo,
my little progress bar didn't spin.
Why didn't it?
I don't believe that.
A little progress where I didn't
spin because this application
blocked in order to get the results.
So I want to go ahead
and modify it real quick.
and David Levy are also
represented in this session.
I'm going to copy the code that sets
the context to my Cocoa object and
sets the callback to be a little stub
that calls a method on my Cocoa object.
Then WS method invocation
schedule with run loop,
giving it the current run loop.
And then I'm going to
return from my function.
So this is the function that
gets hit when you call doSearch.
[Transcript missing]
Close our function,
and then we need another function which
gets called when the callback completes.
[Transcript missing]
There are a couple of customizations
you can add to an invocation.
You can override how
it serializes CF types,
and you do this based on the CF type IDs.
So if a CFDictionary comes along that you
need special control over serializing,
you can say, I want to customize
CFDictionary serialization,
and insert your own code at that point,
which will get called
to write out the XML.
And of course, if you return null,
then the default
serializer will take over.
If there's a part of an XML tree
that isn't being parsed properly
or to your satisfaction,
you can get control of the parser at that
point and replace your own CF type with
what you think should be represented.
And you can access the SOAP headers
and put your own SOAP extensions in,
or if there is a SOAP extension that you
need support for that we don't support,
because we don't support any in 1.0,
you can add your own SOAP headers,
which are XML.
basically into the into the
soap header that gets sent.
[Transcript missing]
So, one more demo.
Back to the demo machine.
And if this works, whoa.
Let's get rid of all these.
So I've got a new project.
I'm not going to copy and paste.
I'm just going to hope it works.
I probably should have run it beforehand.
But I'm going to show you I have,
in a PB project, a new project.
An invocation of the WS Make Stubs tool.
It's probably too small to read,
but it takes -x,
Objective-C is the language
that I want emitted,
and then some parameters that
specify the output directory,
the name of the file
that I want to create,
and in this case,
the URL that Google supplies
with their WSDL information.
And I'm going to go ahead and
run it or compile it while I'm
actually looking at the source.
[Transcript missing]
like this.
For each different method or
endpoint that's available,
it creates an Objective-C class
which inherits from a master
class that implements some of
the underlying WS core behavior.
DoSpellingSuggestion is
one of the Google API's.
Just like the other ones,
it's got the key parameter and then
the phrase that we want to spell check.
And then the one that
we were calling before,
doGoogleSearch.
So in order to call this API,
I changed my implementation.
[Transcript missing]
and then call the set
parameters method on it,
giving it all the same values,
but this time it's statically bound,
statically typed to the
Objective-C runtime.
I set the callback based on the
The API of the generated stubs
gives you a set callback method
and a schedule on run loop method.
It looks exactly the
same as the other code,
it's just I didn't have to do
all the method namespace URI,
SOAP action, and naming of parameters.
That was all done by the generated stubs.
Then when we ran it,
It was running.
It is running.
So it's exactly the same thing,
but the complexity of calling the API is
abstracted by the generated stubs.
The source to that will
be available for demo.
Where are we going in
the future with this API?
We're going to have some
SOAP extensions coming in the future.
As these become formalized
by the industry at large,
we're going to adopt them and produce
APIs to allow them to bind into WS Core.
This is the core stuff.
This is the stuff that we're going to
build our web services architectures on.
We will have a WSDL API in the future,
and better WSDL integration
with CF types and CF schemas.
People have ideas on how they
would like to see that implemented.
By all means, get in contact with us and
let's work together on that.
There's been some call for a UDDI API.
UDDI is an acronym that I'm not
even going to try and remember.
But it's for locating
services on the network.
It's for saying,
"I'm interested in services that give
me cartoons," and coming back with
a list of WSDL files that specify
different cartoons that you can get.
It's a programmatic interface
for discovery of services.
A server-side API may be part of WS Core,
but today,
WebObjects provides a server-side web
services API that's very well integrated
with the WebObjects environment.
Thank you.
you want to talk about the
RoadMap or other sessions.
Or I'll talk about them.
Okay.
So some other sessions that
you might want to go to.
CfNetwork that WS Core is built on is
a very exciting framework that we're
putting a lot of investment in and all
the other sort of IAP and web projects
that you see us doing at Apple are
going to be built on CfNetwork.
XML and WebObjects is going to talk
about accessing web services from
WebObjects and how to integrate
XML into WebObjects applications.
Same with Java Web Services.
Managing I/O, CFRunLoop and CfStream,
if you're a low level person and you
want to understand how CfNetwork works,
how Web Services Core works,
that's a good session to talk,
to go to as well.
More Web Objects and Web Services.
And then the AppleScript Studio intro.
There will be a lot of good
information there about how to use
AppleScript to access web services.
[Transcript missing]
On the Jaguar CD,
in Developer Examples Web Services,
there's an XMethods Inspector app
built using WSMakeStubs.
It's not as nicely polished
as the one Tim showed,
but at least the source is there
and it's easy to understand.
You can find out about XMLRPC at
the website of the developer,
xmlrpc.com.
He's got links to implementations as
well as services that are available.
SOAP is a W3C thing,
so that's a URL that you
use to access the software.
the SOAP specification.
Same with WSDL and UDDI.
And there's a QA, Tech Note 1111,
which is how to add OSA or
AppleScript to your application.
So if you want to take
advantage of AppleScript today,
and web services in a
shipping application,
that would be a good place to start.
There are also tech notes available on
the developer public site on accessing
web services through SOAP and XMLRPC.
Some really good documentation
is already available.